hey guys welcome to
lingua marina something new in my studio
i have a new mic
and i want to ask you whether it's kind
of disturbing or you're fine with it
because i think the sound is so much
better when i use this mic especially
this way but i'm going to talk this way
but still
i love high quality videos on youtube
and i'm kind of tired of this little mic
right here
but again depends on what you're going
gonna say if you don't care
if it's fine for you then it's you know
it's working perfectly for me
let me know today we're gonna talk about
your one of your favorite topics this
topic has been getting a lot of views on
this channel and it's been
helping this channel grow so i decided
that it's time to continue
we're gonna talk about how to speak
english fast
and understand native speakers because
when you speak english
fast that means you're processing
everything in your head faster
you kind of sound more natural of course
it is not something you have to do when
you're just starting out with english
don't try to speed everything up because
people won't be able to understand you
but at some stage when you already know
what you're talking about you just
want to speed up because you want to
keep up with the base of native speakers
and a lot of native speakers tend to
speak faster
than people who just start or who are
learning english
when you start speaking faster you
understand the way
native speakers speak the language and
you are able
to understand what they actually mean
because sometimes people like
oh my god native speakers speak so fast
and i don't really know what they're
talking about because i can't understand
so once you figure out the techniques
that they're using
once you figure out how to use them
yourself you will start understanding
native speakers better and better and
today we're going to talk about some of
those techniques
so if you're interested continue
watching this video write things down
but before we proceed like this video
and subscribe to this channel if you're
not yet subscribed and you're learning
english
because this is one of the most common
mistakes people
people make they either do not subscribe
to this channel when learning english
okay let's do it the first trick
sometimes we say
i should have done this
normally like at school they would teach
us to contract things
so they would teach us to say i should
have done
this but again when we're speaking
english and when we try to sound like
native speakers
the rule of thumb here and rule of thumb
is like what you normally would do
is to sit down and relax and when you
sit down relax you just don't want to
speak like this
shoot up is a little well it it sounds
natural but still
it could be done easier so what is an
easy way
i should have done this try just
try pronouncing yourself maybe we should
have done this online
again another trick with english
whenever you hear something try
pronouncing it yourself because
just because you hear it doesn't mean
you're going to use it you're going to
use it if you pronounce it
and if your muscles are like oh this is
the way it works and
it's like exercise the more you exercise
the better you are
at what you're doing so pronounce with
me i should have done this
should i okay now we're talking about
english that you can use in your daily
life we're not talking about english
that you're going to use in the
classroom
or when you're passing an interview to
harvard
when you're speaking academically you'll
be
like i should have done this but when
you're like with your friends when
you're in the environment
i should have done this i should have
done that this morning
the same with could have and would have
i
could have done this i would have done
this
why showed this like dance to you
because again english is very optimized
for like singing when i was doing a lot
of singing classes my
singing teacher would tell me that i
sing a lot better in english just
because
you know the way people speak english
it's
it's like a song they connect words
and it adds some rhythm so practice with
me i should have done this
i could have done this i would have done
this the next word is a preposition
of first of all it's not off it's
we're gonna show some transcription here
so it's not this it's not
off cup of
tea but if you want to sound like a
native speaker
if you listen to how they're saying this
they're saying it
kappa t and this is very british cup of
tea okay american a lot of stuff
kapati it's no longer of it's just a
cuppa tea uh cup of tea a lot of stuff
it's got a lot of stuff so whenever you
have off in your phrase
and the next word starts with a
consonant
there is a big big chance that a native
speaker
would replace up with
a lot of stuff i did a lot of stuff here
too
lot of water
[Music]
a lot of trash a lot of trash a lot of
clothes
not a lot of clothes if you want to
learn more english with me if you want
more
materials that you can use while
watching my classes i have a huge
kind of huge workbook it's over 180
pages
and it has a lot of exercises that you
can practice with
it has a lot of tables that have idioms
or
other vocabulary that you can use it has
a lot of grammatical explanations so i
highly recommend you
to go ahead and purchase this book it's
less than eight dollars
and it will really enhance your learning
experience and this is something that
i've done
a year ago and the reviews about this
workbook have been amazing so
the link will be down below now let's
talk about reductions
there are words that sound with an h
like
him her he have
and if they are unstressed in a sentence
and remember
in english when we're pronouncing
something like a sentence
we have a stress that goes on a
particular word
there is no like stress in every single
word so when these words
go unstressed people tend to just emit
the letter h and the sound that it
corresponds to
example i tell her
about that very kind of an
artificial not artificial way native
speaker way
i tell her about that so we don't even
have two words here we don't have tell
and we don't have
her we have one word that is teller
tell her i tell her
that tell her tell her instead of i tell
him
i say i tell him
again new word i tell him tell him
i told her nah
i told her let's look at more examples
was he there just try yourself
was he there say it in a native speaker
way
was he there was he was he there
we went to a party yesterday was he
there why was he there
and once you see like now you understand
like
if i showed this race to myself maybe
like seven years ago i would be like
what is she saying just because i didn't
know all the tricks
and now you know them write them down
don't forget about them
at first he was surprised at first he
was surprised
thirsty instead of first he at first he
was angry
what have we done what have we done
i saw him yesterday
i saw him yesterday saw him yesterday at
the bank
faster smoother more natural
let's move further let's talk about
intonation oh it is so difficult
which means yeah it's difficult but when
you say oh
it's so difficult sarcasm
it is not difficult at all again the way
you
stress words the way you phrase
something
is really really important now let's
make a quick exercise
what do i mean here yeah the movie was
really scary
it's number one number two yeah the
movie was really scary
what did i mean in both sentences first
sentence that it was scary second
sentence that it wasn't scary
at all in one of my previous videos we
talked about assimilation and if you
haven't watched that video
the link will be down below please don't
forget to watch the whole series about
how to speak english fast understand
native speakers it's really important
and the example of assimilation was
don't you versus don'tcha
or meet you versus micha that was
assimilation
today i'm going to talk about some other
examples that are maybe not so obvious
contraction of the phrase
what are you sounds like watcha what
you're doing
instead of what are you doing you say
what you're doing what are you talking
about
what you're talking about what are you
saying
what you're saying contraction of what
have you
sounds like watcha what you've been
doing
what you've been up to watcha is also a
contraction of a phrase
what do you what do you think
what you think what do you want to do
now
what you want to do now and watcher is
also a contraction of
what you do what you gotta do
instead of do what you got to do do what
you gotta do
again this is something that you learn
as you go
they all sound like watcha but uh you
will guess the meaning from the context
and you're gonna get there it's not that
difficult but once you know the trick
it makes it easier thank you guys so
much for watching this video up to the
very end i really appreciate it
and again if you're not yet subscribed
to this channel please subscribe and if
you haven't liked this video in the
beginning
why haven't you done that please like it
i will see you very soon in my next
videos
bye bye